[Music]
these tips will help save your life in
five critical situations so one night at
the restaurant you discover you have
only enough money for the meal and not
enough for the tip what do you do you oh
it's not that kind of tip okay excuse me
a wrong script do you know what to do if
you get stuck in a rip current how to
behave during an earthquake how to save
your life during a tsunami not really
well don't worry neither did we
boy that tip thing sounds a whole lot
better now doesn't it these disasters
can be terrifying but knowing the right
course of action will help you survive
and assist those around you here are
some recommendations on what to do and
what not to do in critical situations
rip current summer has arrived and lots
of people spend their weekends and days
off at the beach
however despite appearing to be a
perfect Oasis some beaches have hidden
dangers one such threat is rip currents
rip currents are strong flows of water
and they can pull even the most skillful
swimmers out to sea that's why it's
important to know how to get out of this
situation unharmed your primary goal is
to get back to calm waters since rip
currents are usually narrow with a width
that doesn't exceed 30 feet those waters
are located at the sides so it's
important to swim parallel to the shore
if this seems impossible swim diagonally
you should not try to swim against a rip
current it's too strong swim with the
flow keep in mind that a rip current
will be pushing you away from the shore
try to stay calm and persuade yourself
that you have the situation under
control the worst thing you can do is
panic if you do you'll lose
concentration and might start to drown
you'll give up swim until you are out of
the danger zone once you are out of the
rip current move diagonally toward the
shore as fast as you can because rip
currents tend to circulate back
earthquake Doug Cobb rescue chief and
disaster manager of American rescue team
international developed a theory called
the triangle of life according to this
drop cover and hold on theory the best
place to hide during an earthquake is
avoid formed next to pieces of furniture
if a person sits in or curls up in this
area they can be protected against
falling walls the name the triangle of
life comes from the triangular shape of
the area
despite this idea going viral and
gaining popularity the American Red
Cross has criticized and rejected it the
organization explained that mr. cop's
theory is based on his observations of
the damage caused by earthquakes in
Turkey but this isn't applicable to the
USA Turkey and the USA have significant
differences in building standards
principles of engineering and
construction materials what's more it
can be extremely difficult to foresee
where these triangles will be formed
another problem with this theory is that
according to statistics people die and
are injured during earthquakes because
of falling and moving objects rather
than because of falling structures this
makes lying near big objects dangerous
so what actions are recommended to
survive an earthquake if you are inside
fall to the floor taking into
consideration that earthquakes typically
happen without any warning do this as
soon as it starts don't hope that it
will end quickly because even a small
earthquake can turn into a large-scale
disaster in a matter of seconds find
cover this is urgent and imperative use
anything nearby that is sturdy and
strong a desk a bed or a table as soon
as you are under your chosen shelter
hold on the ground will most likely be
shaking if there's nothing nearby crouch
in an inside corner of the building
protect your head with your arms stay
away from windows glass objects outside
walls and doors and anything that looks
as if it could fall for example tall
furniture
do not go outside you're safer inside
the building
do not hide under doorways it's not safe
do not try to relocate to another room
to find a better shelter because you may
lack the time to do so stay inside until
you feel the shaking stop be careful
when you go outside a lot of injuries
happen when people try to leave
buildings don't run don't go anywhere
near hanging wires and don't use
elevators if you are outdoors stay clear
of buildings utility wires streetlights
and other objects that may fall if
you're driving stop the car immediately
but don't leave it when you stop try to
avoid trees bridges buildings or any
constructions hanging over the car if
you are trapped under debris don't panic
and don't try to get out on your own
wait for help cover your mouth so as not
to inhale dust don't light matches or a
lighter there might be a gas leak and
you could accidentally start a fire try
to create a lot of noise to help
rescuers notice you tornado if you're
inside immediately stop whatever you are
doing find a shelter some offices houses
and schools have special underground
shelters if they're located in places
where tornadoes are common if you can't
reach an underground shelter go down to
the basement try to cover yourself with
something soft pillows blankets
mattresses or get under a heavy piece of
furniture to protect yourself from
falling debris if you can't get
underground find a room without windows
it should be the closest to the center
of the house and on the lowest floor
available you may find cover under a
stairwell or in a hall without windows a
bathroom is a good choice as you can
hide in a bathtub and the room itself is
fortified with pipes
wherever you are lie down or crouched on
the ground with your face turned down
cover your head with your arms avoid
tall buildings rooms with large windows
buildings covered with wide flat roofs
and mobile homes if your outside
unfortunately it's tricky to predict
when a tornado will hit therefore you
might not have enough time to find a
shelter it's quite hard though still
possible to survive a tornado in the
open if you're driving when you hear a
tornado warning try to get to the
nearest building as quickly as you can
wear your seatbelt and avoid open roads
if there's nowhere to hide stay in the
car
bend as much as possible to get below
the line of the window use anything you
have inside to cover yourself your coat
or jacket pillows cushions or blankets
if you aren't in a car search for a low
place like a ditch lie facedown covering
your head with your arms if you have a
blanket or a coat use it to cover as
much of your body as you can never hide
under bridges overpasses or other tall
or overhanging structures most deaths
that happen during a tornado are caused
by falling debris tsunami tsunamis often
happen after serious earthquakes in
areas with large bodies of water the
most dangerous thing about them is that
they move extremely quickly and often
flood populated districts without any
warning the first thing you need to do
is move as far away from the shore as
possible find higher ground it's best if
you can get as high up as 100 feet above
sea level
authorities don't recommend using tall
buildings and tall trees to seek shelter
from a tsunami but if you don't have any
other options climb as high as you can
if you live in an area that can be
affected by a tsunami plan an evacuation
route this will help you in a critical
situation hurricane a hurricane is an
extremely strong storm that can cause
terrible damage luckily hurricanes can
now be predicted with high precision
when you hear an announcement about an
approaching hurricane
follow the instructions from the
authorities if you receive in order to
evacuate do it you will save your life
and the lives of your family as soon as
you hear the warning fill all containers
in your home including bathtubs with
water if the water supply is cut you'll
still have drinking water when the
hurricane approaches stay clear of glass
doors and windows
hurricane winds can be so strong that
they break windows turning shards of
glass into sharp throwing knives
whatever the reason do not go outside
even if you think that the hurricane has
passed stay inside until the authorities
confirm that it's safe to leave
buildings the most dangerous parts are
lulls you may see that the storm has
suddenly calmed down and the rain has
stopped however this may mean not the
end of the hurricane but that the eye of
the storm is over your shelter don't let
this fool you in this case a violent
storm may restart at any moment after
the hurricane is over do not drink tap
water it may be contaminated with
bacteria wait until the authorities
investigate the quality of the water in
your region
so what other ways do you know to stay
safe during natural disasters tell us in
the comments below
hey I've been through both a tornado and
an earthquake lucky me and what you've
seen here is good advice and finally
remember to press the like button and
subscribe to our Channel
stay safe and on the bright side of life